# Ethernet and MAC addresses. 

The most common protocol used to send data across individual links is ethernet. 

Ethernet and the Data Link provide a means for software in higher level of the stack to send and recieve data. 
One of the primary feature is to abstract the way the needfor any other layers to care about the physical layer and what hardware is in use. By dumpig this responsibility on the Data Link Layer the Internet, transaport and application layer operate the same no matter what device they are running on and is connected. 

For example browser doesnt need to know if its running on a device connected through a twisted pair or wireless connection, it just needs the underlying layers to send and recieve data for it. 

## Ethernet 

While using hub we had problem of data collision where only one device can speak at a time. This is because all data in collision domain is sent to all the nodes connected to it. If two computers were to send data across the wire  at the same time this would lead to literal collision of electric current representing 0's and 1's leaving the end result unintelligable.

Ethernet as a protocol solved this problem by using a technique called carrier sense multiple access with collision detection. generally abbreviated as CSMA/CD . It is used to determine when the communication channels are clear and when a device is free to transmit data.

The way CSMA/CD works is if there is no data currently being transmitted on a network segment a node will free to send data. If it ends up knowing that two or more computers are trying to send data at the same time the computers detect this collision and stop sending data. Each device than involved in collision then waits for a random interval of time before sending data again. 
This random interval helps all the computers involved in the collision to avaoid collision the next time. 
When a network segment is a collision domain it means that all devices on that segment recieve all communications across the entire segment. This means we need a way to identify which node the transmission was actually meant for. This is where something known as a Media Access Control (MAC) comes into play. 

## MAC Address

A globally unique identifier attached to an individual network interface. It's a 48-bit number normally represented by six groupings of two hexadecimal numbers. 
A MAC address is solpi into two sections. The first three octets are known as Organizationally Unique Identifier or OUI. The last three numbers are Vendor Assigned.

Ethernet uses MAC addresses to ensure that the data it sends has both an address for the machine that sent the transmission, as well as the one the tansmission was inteded for.


## Unicast, Multicast and Broadcast 

One device sending to another device is known as unicast. A unicast transmission is always meant for just one recieving address. 
At ethernet level this is achieved using a special bit in the destination mac address. If the least significant bit in the first octet of a destination address is set to zero it means that the ethernet frame is intended for only the destination address. 

It means it would be sent to all devices on the collision network but only recieved and processed at the inteded destination. 
if the significant bit in the first octet is set to 1 it means we are dealing with a multicast frame. 

In multicast frame it is similarly set to all devices on the local network signal whats different is that it would be accepted or discarded by each device depending on criteria aisde from their own hardware mac address. Network interfaces can be configured to accept list of multicast addresses for this sort of communication. 

Broadcast is sent to every single device on the LAN this is accomplished by using a special destination called a Broadcast address. 
The etherent broadcast address is all FF:FF:FF:FF:FF:FF 
Ether net broadcasts are used so that devices can learn more about each other. 